This is where I'm happy to take any
kind of specific situations and
specific challenges any issues
that you've come up with.
I will say I've put all of
the slides from today online at
subscribe.boagworld.com/designprocess.
Can download them all from there,
it's all linked up.
So that PDF that you download will have
links off to all those articles and
tools that I mentioned.
So hopefully that will help.
I will reiterate what I said earlier.
I'm more than happy to answer any
questions you've got via email,
even if you're watching
this three years later.
I'm more than happy.
Because I know how frustrating
the design process can get.
And if you feel stuck in iteration, hell
if you're struggling to get control of
the process hopefully today will help them
all that you've learned on this course.
But they're always nuances,
particular challenges you face.
Talking to which hopefully we've got some
challenges and things to talk about.
Mark, what do you got for us?
>> Do you have any good examples of design
systems that we could go and look at for
inspiration?
>> Yeah, there are some companies
that posted them online.
My mind is now gone blank to
all the ones that do that.
I know that the BBC does.
They've got one called the BBC
gel global experience language.
I quite liked the looking at the BBC
one because that is very clever.
They built it very early on.
And what makes one clever is
that the BBC has to cater for
vastly different audiences.
So they have to cater for
people interested in sports.
Kinda holly brow RT people
that listen to radio four,
all the way down to toddlers, right?
It really is everybody.
And so the way that they've built
their design system is very clever.
That they've got their components,
which are effectively the same.
Whether whether you're on CBS,
which is for the kids site, or
whether on BBC News,
you're using the same kind of components.
Using lists and navigation,
and content blocks and
carousels, and all of those things.
So they've built one of those.
But they've built them independent
from the aesthetics, right?
So they've got this very neutral kind
of no aesthetics really
on them via grayscale.
And then what they do is for
each of the brands effectively that
they've gotten the different audiences,
they layer on a level of CSS on top of
it which then visually styles those.
So all the functionality is consistent
across all of their different
platforms and sites.
And if you know how to use one of
their sites, you can use all of them,
which is a great user experience, yet they
can still be tailored to their individual
audiences, which I think is very clever.
There are loads of other design
systems out there to check out, but
that's a good one.
Even just searching on
design systems examples,
there's sites that actually collected
design systems that you can look at and
just don't know them
off the top of my head.
Any other questions?
>> I'll just comment that we do have
a design systems course by I'm in Boston.
>> Bro
>> All willing to it.
>> Yeah, definitely,
definitely was that because,
design systems are one of those things
that are really simple to explain,
but actually can be frustratingly
complicated to get right.
Just basic things, right?
Let's say you've got a design system
that contains a carousel, right?
When you improve that carousel,
cuz your design system needs to evolve
over time obviously as you change things,
do you version the carousel or
do you version the whole design system?
And how do you manage that process to,
and how do you roll it all out?
There's a lot of underlying complexity
that kind of when you start digging around
in it, becomes quite overwhelming.
And and how to structure your components
and all these kinds of things.
So yeah, what's your course on it will
really help a lot more than I will.
>> I was in a project once that
like we had a giant design by like,
if they were depending on a third party.
>> Right.
>> And they didn't deliver on time,
so we had to scale back our design.
>> Yeah.
>> Completely and
I made it almost pointless.
>> Yeah.
>> Have you encountered that?
>> Yes, I have a lot.
And I have, for
someone who ran an agency for
13 years,
this is gonna sound a bit strange.
But I have increasing concerns about how
most large organizations use agencies.
Agencies are a necessity when
you're a smaller organization.
Say for example like Front End Masters
they can't have a staff of
designers on board the whole time.
They couldn't keep them busy.
But for a larger organization, relying on
third party suppliers is problematic for
precisely the reasons
that you've identified.
So one answer is building your own in
house team, but that doesn't [LAUGH] you
probably don't have the power to
make that happen, I'm guessing.
So, I think the other way of
doing it is possibly changing
the working relationship
with that supplier.
So if you are gonna take on a third party
supplier at the moment we still have this
arm's length relationship
with our suppliers.
So you go away and do your bit and
then you come back with the deliverables.
And it's a fixed deliverable and
a fixed timescale, right?
And inevitably it goes wrong because
there's been miscommunication or
problems and stuff like that.
So actually a better way to work
with third parties is say, okay,
we're gonna work with you, but we're
gonna integrate you into our team, right?
So you aren't gonna operate at that arm's
length relationship, but instead you're
gonna bring design resources into the
company either virtually or physically.
And you are gonna work as part
of our cross disciplinary team.
And you're gonna work on a time and
materials basis.
We're not gonna do fix deliverables or
anything like that,
cuz you're gonna be integrated
into our team itself.
So that would avoid a lot of those
problems because it would force
those designers to work in your way.
So that's a beneficial step, right?
That you can do.
If you can't do that either, then is
setting up front very clear standards.
So one of the things cuz I often work with
companies that have to work with third
parties, and one of the first things I
say is look, you need to design system.
It's one of the environments where you
really do need a design system quite
importantly.
Because you say to your suppliers,
we are expecting you to work with this
design system using this set of assets.
So that we can easily
implement it afterwards.
And it stops them going off and
doing weird or
stuff that really is impractical or
doesn't understand all of the constraints.
And then the final piece
of advice I would give,
if you're gonna work on that relationship
is you need an active manager at your end.
Who is actively almost not relying just
on their internal project managers to do
their job right, but have a counterpart
of your end that is essentially
actively running the people on
the ground within the agency.
Cuz it's very hard for an agency to
understand all of the complexities and
nuances up front in a way that your
own internal project manager could do.
But it is a tricky one working
with third party agencies.
And increasingly my attitude
is well hang on a minute.
If you're saying digital is
business critical to you, right?
It's business critical to your operation.
Would you outsource any other business
critical part of your operation?
You wouldn't.
It's insanity, to the thing that
you are reliant on to operate,
you have to outsource.
So that's why I intend to these days
recommend they bring it in house.
That was a very long
answer to your question.
But it's a difficult one, so.
>> My situation was like it
was an in house team, but
it was a completely different department
>> Completely different department.
>> That's an interesting one.
Yeah, yeah,
now that's I've come across that as well.
And that goes back to the problem
of these departmental silos.
That you've got different
components reporting into
different departmental silos.
The real answer to that is to implement
cross disciplinary teams, right?
That basically break that down.
So effectively that whoever was working
on that project would be seconded out
of their existing department
is still reporting into it.
But then seconded into a project team
that would consist of a developer or
designer and all the other people that
can work on it simultaneously together.
In practical terms, making that
happened can often be really difficult.
Because everybody protects
their business silos.
So that kind of unofficial
way of doing it,
is you find out the actual person
that is working on this project.
And you reach out to them personally.
And say,
let's set up a slack group with just us.
Or let's set up a place where
we can talk and share things.
So we're not always going through
the intermediate of our project manager or
our manager on the set, and actually get
your build that relationship directly with
the person you'll be working, and
just circumnavigate the bureaucracy.
But yeah, so that's a very
difficult situation you're facing.
[LAUGH] Anything else?
Yes.
>> That hand wavy question, but-
>> Hell I don't mind
hand wavy questions I go.
>> When should designers stick with
established design pattern like a card,
or when should they create
like a new pattern?
>> Okay,
actually this is a pet subject of mine.
So it's not a hand wavy question,
it's a passionate question.
There is a school of thought
within design at the moment
that all design is looking seamy, right?
And that there's a lack of
innovation going on within design.
I strongly disagree with this position.
We are not artists, right?
Our job is not self-expression.
Our job is not to push the boundaries.
Our job is to provide an outstanding
user experience, okay?
An experience that people can
interact with seamlessly.
The web is a horrible environment for
that, okay?
Every website, every app that you visit,
the user has to relearn the interface and
how to interact with it.
Can you imagine that
in any other scenario?
Every time you walk up
to the traffic lights,
they've got different color lights and
are organized in a different way.
Every time you went to open a door,
it was a different latch mechanism.
It would be ridiculous.
Standards and conformity
provides clarity to the user and
enables them to interact more easily.
So if there is a design pattern
that supports what you want to do,
that already exists, like a card,
a carousel, navigation, pagination,
hamburger menu which is an abomination
in many way, but people have learnt it.
If they have already learned and
they are standards you stick with them.
You do not change things
just to be creative.
Equally if there are conventions
about where things should appear,
do not move them, right?
And I can say this from
personal experience.
Let me give you one example.
I had an agency site that
specialized in disability.
So you'd expect a website to be usable.
And I was the designer, hands up,
this is entirely my fault.
But in a moment of sheer
inspiration on my part,
I decided that we wanted to
encourage newsletter sign ups.
And I knew, cuz I'm very knowledgeable,
that a lot of people do seem to
fixate on the top right hand corner
when they first arrive at a website.
Just the way the web works.
So I thought what a great place
to put a newsletter signup form.
So I put a form field for their email
address and a button next to it,
to submit that.
Genius I thought.
Newsletter sign ups will come through even
put sign up to our newsletter above it.
And then I noticed months later,
cuz I wasn't paying much attention to
my website, cuz I'm a bad human being,
that we hadn't had really
any newsletter sign ups.
I thought that strange.
And I looked at our analytics.
And I found that there was lots
of submissions of the button,
people were clicking on the button.
Why was we not getting a newsletter?
I must have coded it wrong.
No, I coded perfectly.
People were typing search
queries into that field,
because of its position, cuz that's
where you find search is the top right.
So they just presumed without
reading the instructions,
it was a search box everybody was typing
in a search query hitting the button and
it was giving them an error saying,
that is not a valid email address.
And they will go, well,
this is a shit site leaving, right?
Because I wasn't following
the conventions,
that said searches in
the top right hand corner.
Okay, rant over.
So there you go stick
with the conventions,
[LAUGH] all of that was to say [LAUGH].
It's always nice to hear somebody
else's messing up, isn't it?
So it's something deeply reassuring to
hear, somebody's screwing things up.
I'm sure I've got lots of them.
Examples of me doing things horribly
wrong, but we'll leave it there.
And there is a place, don't get me wrong.
I'm not saying that you
should never innovate online.
Of course not.
That's just damn.
But I would suggest that
you don't innovate at
the expense of your client or
employer, right?
You innovate in your own projects,
your side projects.
So it's where you can do fun,
stupid stuff.
I do all kinds of stupid
things on my website.
And I'm probably one of the few
people that have my own
personal website these days.
It's very full and out of fashion.
But they're a great place for
messing around.
And I often like,
I'm trying to think overlays, right?
Those annoying popup overlays that, and
I've been bad mouthing them for years.
Saying that they're just annoying and
they're detrimental, but I thought, well,
let's run it on my own website and
see what happens, right?
And see whether it does
make any difference, and
whether it made no difference to
my conversion rate whatsoever.
And just got a whole load of angry
people going, why are you doing this?
You should know better.
But that was my chance to learn.
And we need an environment where
we can push and innovate, but
I don't think it's on our client websites
or our employees websites, I'm afraid.
Unless your employer happens to be,
I don't know,
Harry Potter's website, where you
expect it's about exploration and
finding things, and
that kind of thing, that's different.
But if you work in e-commerce or
whatever it's not a good idea.